# Open Gravtext Specification


### Version 1.0.0 

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [BCP 14](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp14) [RFC2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119) [RFC8174](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8174) when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

This document is licensed under [The Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

## Introduction 

The Open Gravtext Specification is an open source specification which defines a text-based virtual communication standard designed to allow persons to express emotion with an assigned quantitative value to convey impact, emphasis, etc.

This specification is language-agnostic and unopinionated of its implementation. 

## Table of Contents 
<!-- TOC depthFrom:1 depthTo:3 withLinks:1 updateOnSave:1 orderedList:0 -->

- [Definitions](#definitions)
- [Basic Syntax](#basicSyntax)
- [Advanced Syntax](#advancedSyntax)

<!-- /TOC -->

## <a name="definitions"></a>Definitions 

**Gravtext Statement:** A Gravtext Statement is the complete syntactical structure composed of the explicit lexical pattern `<Sentiment><Assignment><Tally>`.

**Sentiment:** The Sentiment is the textual expression of emotion.

**Assignment:** The Assingment is the delimeter that marks the end of the Sentiment and the beginning of the Tally.

**Tally:** The Tally is the value assignment of the Sentiment. Tallies are arbitrary pseudo-quantitative valuations. Within the scope of the syntactical rules, all Tallies are valid.

---

## <a name="basicSyntax"></a>Basic Syntax 

| Component |  Required | Syntax Rules |
| :- | :-: | :- |
| Sentiment | Y | MUST have at least one _alphanumeric_ character immediately to the left of the **Assignment** and at least one MUST be an _alphabetical_ character (case-insensitive). |
| Assignment | Y | MUST be either single _colon_ or _equal sign_ only and placed to the right of the **Sentiment** and to the left of the **Tally**. |
| Tally | Y | MUST begin with an _integer_ character (signed or unsigned) and end with an _integer_ character and MUST be placed to the right of the **Assignment** |

### Examples 

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `j:5` ||
| Legal | `overnumerousness=-1` | - |
| Legal | `I love you:3000` |

---

## <a name="advancedSyntax"></a>Advanced Syntax

### Conjoining Gravtext Statements 

Gravtext Statements MAY be conjoined by delimeting them with a _comma_ character after the last Tally _integer_ character. Whitespaces after the _comma_ and before the next Sentiment's _alphanumeric_ character are legal.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `happy:2,joy:2` |
| Legal | `happy=2, joy=2` |

### Sentiment Naming 

Gravtext Sentiments MAY begin with an _integer_ character provided the last character before the Assignment is _alphabetical_ (case insensitive).

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `2L2Q:100` |

### Truncated Gravtext Statements 

Truncated Gravtext Statements contain multiple Sentiments which MUST be assigned the same Tally.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `happy:joy:2` |

### Conjoined Truncated Gravtext Statements  

Truncated Gravtext Statements MAY be conjoined by delimeting them with a _comma_ character after the last Tally _integer_ character. Whitespaces after the _comma_ and before the next Sentiment's _alphanumeric_ character are legal.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `happy:joy:2,stoked:anxious:ready:10` |
| Legal | `fast:furious:50, dazed:confused:-90` |

### Truncated Sentiment and Assignment Combinations 

Truncated Gravtext Statements MAY have different Assignment characters.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `mellow:calm=relaxed:45` |
| Legal | `glamourous:1000,magical:wonderful=dope:6000` |

### Sentiment Combinations 

A Gravtext Statement MAY contain both truncated and standalone Sentiments.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `happy:joy:2,fullfilled:99` |

### Sentiment Spacing 

Sentiments MAY contain spaces between the first and last _alphanumeric_ characters. 

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal |  `opposite of batman:1000000` |

### Assignment Combinations 

Gravtext Statements that are conjoined MAY have different Assignment characters.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `enthralled=70,intrigued:40` |

### Tally Digit Grouping 

Tallies MAY have digit groupings as any non-numeric character and SHALL exclude the _colon_ and _equal sign_ characters. Remember that Tallies MUST begin with either an _integer_ character (signed or unsigned) and end with an _integer_ character

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `wibbly:1,000,000,000` |
| Legal | `wobbly:1_000_000_000` |
| Legal | `timey:1.000.000.000` |
| Legal | `wimey:1,000_000.000` |

### Tally Spacing 

Tallies MAY have white spaces inbetween the first and last _numeric_ characters. 

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `you were absolutely fantastic:10 0000 0 000, and so was I=9` |

### Tally Emojis 

Tallies MAY have emoji characters inbetween the first and last _numeric_ characters.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `the bear is sticky with honey=4🐻000🐻000🐻000` |

### Tally Loading

Tallies MAY have _alphabetical_ characters inbetween the first and last _numeric_ characters.

| Syntax | Gravtext Statement |
| :- | :- |
| Legal | `watch:1the1meta1play1` |
